---
layout: post
title: "Video Card Woes - Finally Resolved... Nope"
date: 2008-02-02 01:04:46 -0800
comments: true
tags: ["nVidia", "BFG Tech"]
redirect_from: ["/archive/2008/02/01/video-card-woes---finally-resolved.-nope.aspx/"]
author: "Jeff Handley"
---
<!-- more -->
<p>Well, <a href="http://ANTOnline.com" target="_blank">ANTOnline</a> sucks.  They really suck, and I'm not afraid to say it!</p>  <p>Back on Jan 25, I said that I had <a href="http://blog.jeffhandley.com/archive/2008/01/25/never-ending-video-card-woes.aspx" target="_blank">submitted an RMA</a> to them after talking with <a href="http://www.bfgtech.com" target="_blank">BFG Tech</a>.  This was actually the 2nd RMA I submitted to ANTOnline.  The first was because there was no DVI-I to VGA dongle included like there should have been.  But the one I submitted on Jan 25 was because BFG told me that the card I got was probably bad.  I haven't heard back from ANTOnline yet.</p>  <p>I called them, I emailed them, I submitted their online form, and I submitted the RMA.  I've never heard anything from them.  I called them again and voiced my frustration but they could not help me at all, claiming the RMA department was completely separately.  But to not get a response at all?  Simply ridiculous.</p>  <p>Never buy from ANTOnline.com.  They suck.  I wouldn't be surprised if they re-shrink-wrapped the card that they sent me after someone else had returned it.  That would explain both the bad card and the missing dongle.</p>  <p>   </p><hr />BFG Tech is awesome!  They were very nice on the phone and in email.  They were sympathetic of my issues with ANTOnline and they took the RMA themselves.  I dropped the bad card off at UPS on Jan 29, around 6:30pm; I got the new card today.  And it seems to work wonderfully.  <p>I think I finally have all 3 monitors working just like I expected...</p>  <p>OOPS, Hold the presses!  No, it's not working!  As I was literally just typing that I have all 3 monitors working, I got some errant noise on the 3rd screen.  Well, dang!  I guess I'll be contacting BFG Tech again.</p>  <p>This might be to the point where I have to just throw in the towel and go back to 2 monitors.  But, I really, really miss that 3rd screen.  I wonder if taking a stick of memory out would resolve the problem.  I've seen some references to people doing that in Vista.</p>
