---
layout: post
title: "Video Card Woes, Situation Worsening"
date: 2008-01-03 06:45:21 -0800
comments: true
category: Archive
tags: []
redirect_from: ["http://jeffhandley.com/archive/2008/01/02/video-card-woes-situation-worsening.aspx"]
author: 0
---
<!-- more -->
<p>ATI responded back to me pretty quickly.  However, the message was useless, stating simply to use the latest drivers, which of course I was.  I responded again and just restated the same problems as follows:</p>  <p><code>I have installed the latest drivers but I'm still not having any luck. With a single card in place, everything works wonderfully. But when I put the 2nd card in (they are identical cards), the quality of the display drops significantly to where it's unusable. Moving windows around does not force a redraw, popup windows are not displayed correctly, etc.</p>    <p>What is the recommended usage for 2 of these cards on a 64-bit AMD Windows Vista machine? Should I be using only the DVI ports, or should I be able to use the DVI and VGA ports to achieve dual monitor support? I am trying to run 3 VGA monitors.</p>    <p>Thanks,     <br />Jeff</code></p>  <p>Here's the response that I received this afternoon:</p>  <p><code>Hello Jeff: </p>    <p>Thank you for contacting AMD Customer Care for ATI products. </p>    <p>Please be advised that using two Radeon video adapters (or one Radeon and one third-party) in one system (with the exception of Crossfire setups) is neither recommended nor supported due to resulting hardware and software conflicts. </p>    <p>For multiple monitor support (more than two), please refer to the ATI FrieMV 2400 series. More details are accessible at: </p>    <p><a href="http://ati.amd.com/products/firemvseries/index.html">http://ati.amd.com/products/firemvseries/index.html</a></p>    <p>Regards,     <br />AMD Customer Care for ATI Products </code></p>  <p><font style="background-color: #fcfaf0">This is not at all what I expected them to say, and my message back explains why:</font></p>  <p><code>Thank you for the response.  However, the reason I selected these cards was because of the touted support for dual cards to drive up to 4 monitors. </p>    <p><a href="http://www.visiontek.com/products/cards/retail/x1300_256pci.html">http://www.visiontek.com/products/cards/retail/x1300_256pci.html</a></p>    <p>On that page, the following is stated:     <br />-----------------------------------------------------------------      <br />Advanced Multi-Display Capability      <br />VisionTek’s Radeon X1300 PCI card brings advanced multi-display capabilities to your personal computer.  Easily connect and run two (2) displays simultaneously using a single X1300 card, from VisionTek.  Achieve your maximum productivity by running two (2) separate applications, when utilizing side-by-side dual monitors on your desk top.  Add two (2) VisionTek X1300 PCI cards to your PC and manage four (4) or more monitors at once.      <br />-----------------------------------------------------------------</p>    <p>This same information is highlighted on the product packaging.</p>    <p>Is VisionTek advertising a false claim or can dual cards be supported to achieve 3 displays?</p>    <p>Also, I contacted VisionTek's support on December 21, 2007 and I have not yet received a response which is why I've escalated my support to you.</code></p>  <p><font style="background-color: #fcfaf0">I'm sure their next response will be interesting.</font></p>

